# Building

Mutagen is *not* `go get`able for end-users because it needs to cross-compile
agent binaries for remote platforms and generate a bundle of these binaries. In
general, users should download the release builds from the
[releases page](https://github.com/havoc-io/mutagen/releases/latest).

Mutagen can, however, be built locally for testing and development. Mutagen
relies on the Go toolchain's module support, so make sure that you have Go
module support enabled.

Individual Mutagen executables can be built normally using the Go toolchain, but
a script is provided to manage cross-compiled builds and agent bundle creation.
To see information about the build script, run:

    go run scripts/build.go --help

The build script can do three different types of builds: slim (with support for
the local system only), testing (with support for a selection of common
platforms used in testing), and release (used for generating complete release
artifacts). macOS is currently the only platform that supports doing release
builds, because the macOS binaries require cgo support for file monitoring.

All artifacts from the build are placed in a `build` directory at the root of
the Mutagen source tree. As a convenience, artifacts built for the current
platform are placed in the root of the build directory for easy testing, e.g.:

    go run scripts/build.go
    build/mutagen --help


## Protocol Buffers code generation

Mutagen uses Protocol Buffers extensively, and as such needs to generate Go code
from `.proto` files. To avoid the need for developers (and CI systems) to have
the Protocol Buffers compiler installed, generated code is checked into the
repository. If a `.proto` file is modified, code can be regenerated by running

    go generate ./pkg/...

in the root of the Mutagen source tree.

The `go generate` commands used by Mutagen rely on Go module support being
enabled. You will also need to have the `protoc` compiler (with support for
Protocol Buffers 3) available in your path, but not the Go generator, which will
be built as part of the `go generate` command.
